h2. Managing ContentRepositories

endprologue.

h3. Database driver configuration

h4. Install additional JDBC drivers

The JDBC drivers for MariaDB (default driver for MySQL) and Oracle-MySQL are included in the CMS package already.
The JDBC drivers for Oracle-DB or Microsoft-SQL-Server are not included in the CMS package and have to be
installed manually. To install a JDBC driver, simply copy the JAR-file provided by your database vendor to the shared
lib directory of the CMS: @/cms/libs@.

h4. Configuration

To activate the Oracle-DB, Oracle-MySQL or Microsoft-SQL-Server JDBC driver in the CMS you have to configure the full class name (including
the package name - e.g.: "oracle.jdbc.OracleDriver") of the JDBC driver in the node.conf:

<javascript filename="conf/*.yml">
contentrepository_driverclass:
  # activate Oracle-DB support for content repositories
  oracle: "<FULL-JDBC-DRIVER-CLASS-NAME>"
  # activate Microsoft-SQL-Server support for content repositories
  mssql: "<FULL-JDBC-DRIVER-CLASS-NAME>"
  # activate Oracle MySQL JDBC driver for content repositories (default is org.mariadb.jdbc.driver)
  mysql: "com.mysql.jdbc.Driver"
</javascript>

After making theses changes the CMS has to be restarted. After the CMS restart it should be
possible to choose the Oracle-DB or Microsoft-SQL-Server database type in the Content Repository create and edit dialogs.

h3. ContentRepository Fragments

Tagmap Entries can either be created for individual ContentRepositories, or they can be grouped together in "ContentRepository Fragments":admin_cr_fragments.html.

Using ContentRepository Fragments has two major advantages:
# Fragments can be assigned to multiple ContentRepositories, so their entries are shared by multiple CRs
# Fragments can be put into "devtool packages":devtools_overview.html
