h2. Docker

endprologue.

h3. Gentics CMS Docker Compose Stack

Please use the Gentics CMS Docker Compose Stack provided at "https://github.com/gentics/cms-compose":https://github.com/gentics/cms-compose for running Gentics CMS.

h3. Example usage

when not using the Gentics CMS Docker Compose Stack

<shell>
docker network create genticscms
docker run -d --name db --net genticscms -e MYSQL_RANDOM_ROOT_PASSWORD=true -e MYSQL_DATABASE=node_utf8 -e MYSQL_USER=node -e MYSQL_PASSWORD=node mariadb:10.3 --sql-mode=""
docker run -d -p 8080:80 --net genticscms --name cms -e NODE_DB_HOST=db docker.apa-it.at/gentics/cms:5.33
</shell>

h3. Configuration

h4. Environment variables

|_.Variable               |_.Default     |_.Description                                              |
| CONFIG_ACCESS_SUBNET    | 127.0.0.0/8  | The network allowed to fetch the config via /.Node/?do=24 |
| ADD_JAVA_OPTS           |              | Additional java options                                   |
| JAVA_XMS                | 1024m        | Initial JVM memory allocation pool                        |
| JAVA_XMX                | 1024m        | Maximum JVM memory allocation pool                        |
| JAVA_GC_OPTS            | -XX:+PrintGC | JVM GC settings                                           |
| LICENSEKEY              | 1111-1111-1111-1111-1111-1111-1111-1111  | GCMS License key              |
| LICENSEKEY_PATH         | /cms/keys/license.key     | Path to license key file in the container |
| PRIVATEKEY_PATH         | /cms/keys/private-key.jwk | Path to the private key of the CMS in the container |
| NODE_DB_HOST            | localhost    | MySQL host                                                |
| NODE_DB_PORT            | 3306         | MySQL port                                                |
| NODE_DB_USER            | node         | MySQL user                                                |
| NODE_DB_PASSWORD        | node         | MySQL password                                            |
| NODE_DB                 | node_utf8    | MySQL database name                                       |
| NODE_DB_CONNECT_TIMEOUT | 60           | Time in seconds to wait for the database to be reachable before exiting with an error |
| NODE_USER_PASSWORD      |              | Password to set for the node CMS user                     |
| APACHE_PORT             | 80           | Port of the internal Apache Http server                   |
| APACHE_LOG_PREFIX       |              | Optional prefix for log lines of the internal Apache Http Server |
| CN_EXTERNAL_SERVER      |              | Optional base URL for accessing the CMS. Needed for correctly generating download URLs for form data exports (e.g. @https://cms.domain.com@) |

h4. Volumes

|_.Volume path |_.Description             |
| /Node/node   | Binary database files and files that should be persisted, should be mount as named Docker volume |

h3. Kubernetes / Openshift

The CMS docker image can also be used with a Kubernetes or Openshift pod. Running the container with a random user ID and group ID 0 is supported (Openshift policies support). All folders that should be writable are owned by the group ID 0 and are group writable.

Note: It might be necessary to configure the port of the internal Apache Http Server to a non-privileged port (e.g. 8080) by using the environment variable _APACHE_PORT_ when running the container in Openshift.

h3. Updating

Updating to a newer version normally doesn't require any special actions besides changing the image tag.

h4. From 5.35.x to 5.36.x

When updating from a version older than 5.36.x, you have to consider the following things:

* The group for writable folders has changed to 0 (root) in order to support Openshift.
* sudo has been removed. Please change any custom scripts or scheduler tasks to not use sudo anymore.
* cron has been replaced by the more container friendly "supercronic"
* All processes are running with the "node" user now. Apache 2 was previously executed with the "www-data" user.
* The container can be run with any User ID for the "node" user now (Openshift support)

If the container runs with a different User ID after updating, please run the following commands:

<shell>
	chown -R 1000:0 /Node/node
	chmod -R u+rwX,g+rwX,o-w /Node/node
</shell>

If you also have mounted other volumes than /Node/node (e.g.: /var/log/, ...), the above also has to be done for these.
