h2. Configure Aloha Editor inside a template

If Aloha Editor settings should be added to the template of a page, some extra care has to be taken in order
to find the right place for that.

endprologue.

Custom settings for Aloha Editor have to be added _after_ the default settings and _before_ the script tags of Aloha Editor.

In order to accomplish this, there are two placeholders that can be added to the template:
* *&lt;aloha_settings&gt;* will be replaced by the default settings
* *&lt;aloha_scripts&gt;* will be replaced by the scripts tags to load Aloha Editor

NOTE: Aloha CSS files will be automatically added into the head tag of the HTML page.

The following template shows an example of how to add custom settings:

<shell filename="My Template">
<html>
<head>
	<!-- Default Aloha Editor settings go here: -->
	<aloha_settings>
	
	<!-- Custom settings for an Aloha Editor plugin -->
	<script type="text/javascript">
		Aloha.settings.plugins.image.minHeight = 5;
	</script>

	<!-- Aloha Editor script tags go here: -->
	<aloha_scripts>

</head>
<body>
	<h1>This is an example</h1>
	<h2><node content></h2>
</body>
</html>
</shell>

WARNING: Changes in the Aloha.settings JSON Object will override the default configuration, so you
need to take care to not unintentionally overwrite necessary settings. 

The following example shows a *bad* configuration, because it will remove all configuration of all other plugins.

<shell filename="My Template">
Aloha.settings.plugins = {"image": {"minHeight": 5}}; 
</shell>

Overwriting the configuration like this will break the editing of the page in Gentics CMS,
because editing depends on configuration of some Gentics CMS specific plugins.

