h2. Keycloak

"Keycloak":http://www.keycloak.org/ is an identity and access management system
providing a trusted way for an application to authenticate a user via different
authentications protocols.

endprologue.

h3. Server side configuration

Activate the Keycloak feature and add configuration for user creation callbacks and initial groups:

<shell filename="keycloak.yml">
feature:
  keycloak: true
keycloak:
  user_created_callback: your.companyname.custom.SsoUserCreated
  init_groups: |
    if(attr.roles.realm CONTAINSONEOF 'admin-user-role',
      [3],
      if(attr.roles.resource.gcms CONTAINSONEOF 'editor-user-role',
        [4],
        [5]
      )
    )
</shell>

Place the `keycloak.json` generated for the CMS in the UI configuration directory (default: `ui-conf`).

h3. Configuration for the Editor/Administration User Interface

If you are using the new UI, you will also have to make sure the REST-API
is configured to use the "Keycloak servlet filter":rest_auth.html#sso-with-keycloak.

Except for the @groupMapper@ and @userCreatedCallback@ entries, the configuration
entries correspond exactly to the respective fields in the @keycloak.json@ you can
generate in the Keycloak admin front-end, and you should put all the entries here even
when they are not listed in the example above.

h4. Circumvent Single Sign-on

It can usefull to not use the single sign process although it is enabled.
The single sign on process will be skipped and users will be forwarded to the login form when the url parameter @skip-sso@ is present.
Example: @https://yourcmshost.tld/editor/?skip-sso@

h4. Single Sign Out

By activating the feature

<javascript filename="conf/features.yml">
feature:
	keycloak_signout: true
</javascript>

users will automatically be logged out from Keycloak, if they log out from the CMS using the Editor User Interface or Administration User Interface.
