h2. Devtools UI

This section contains a short description of the devtools UI.

endprologue.

h3. Packages

When the "feature devtools":devtools_configuration.html#activate-feature is activated, users with sufficient permission
will get a new entry in the tree @Administration|Content.Admin|Packages@ which will lead to the list of packages found in the filesystem.

From here, the following actions are possible:

* Activate/deactivate "automatic synchronization":devtools_synchronization.html#automatic-synchronization
* Add/remove packages
* "Manually synchronize":devtools_synchronization.html#manual-synchronization packages
* List objects contained in a package

h3. List of objects

Selecting a package will list the objects contained in the package. The lists are separated by types:

* Tagtypes
* Templates
* Datasources
* Object properties
* CR Fragments
* ContentRepositories

The current listed type can be changed in the assistent frame. The @Info@ section of the assistent frame shows the content of the @README.md@ file
found in the package's root directory.

The object lists allow to

* Add objects (from the CMS) into the package
* Remove objects from the package

NOTE: When the automatic synchronization is disabled, packages might contain objects that do not exist in the CMS. They will also be listed, but marked with @No@ in
the column @In the CMS@.

h3. Node related tree entries

Users with sufficient permission will get additional tree entries for each node.

h4. @Packages@ of the node

This entry will lead to a list of all packages, with the possibility to assign packages to the node.
When a package is assigned to a node, all tagtypes and templates in that package will also be assigned to the node. CR fragments contained in the package will be assigned to the
CR of the node.
When a package is unassigned from a node, the tagtypes and templates already assigned will still be assigned to the node, but any further changes
of the package will not affect the node.

h4. @Tagtypes@ of the node

This will show a list of all tagtypes currently assigned to the node.

h4. @Templates@ of the node

This will show a list of all templates currently assigned to the node. Templates are assigned to the node, when they are contained in a package which is
assigned to the node, or when they are linked to at least one folder of the node.

When a template is unassigned from the node, it is unlinked from all folders of the node.

h3. Adding multiple objects to packages

Users with sufficient permissions have an additional action @Add to package@ in the list views for template, tagtypes, datasources, object properties and CR fragments.
Selecting this action for a single or multiple objects will show a list of all packages, where one or multiple packages can be selected and the objects
added to the packages with the action @Add to package@.
