h2. eMail Sending with Gentics CMS

This section covers the necessary configuration settings, when Gentics CMS shall send inbox messages as eMails.

endprologue.

h3. Configuration Settings

The following features may be set to enable eMail sending

<shell filename="conf/features.yml">
# enable the feature to send inbox messages as eMails
feature:
  inbox_to_email: true
</shell>

These are the configuration options for the feature:

<shell filename="conf/*.yml">
# set the hostname of the mailserver. The mailserver must be
# reachable from the Gentics CMS Server and must accept
# relaying eMails from this server. The default is 'localhost'
mailhost: "mail.mycompany.org"

# Port of the mailserver
mailport: 587

# set the eMail Address to be used as Return-Path header (also
# called envelope address). It may be important to set this to
# a real eMail address, because some target mail servers might
# block eMails otherwise.
mailreturnpath: "admin@mycompany.org"

# with this flag, STARTTLS will be used when communicating with the email server (see https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Opportunistic_TLS)
mailstarttls: true

# username for email authentication
mailusername: "emailuser"

# password for email authentication
mailpassword: "secret"
</shell>

INFO: As Gentics CMS does not always send emails with a "From"-header, you should configure your mail sending application (sendmail, postfix) to send emails with a valid email address by default (a valid external public DNS hostname). Otherwise other mail servers will maybe reject the emails.

&nbsp;
