h2. How can I improve the publish performance?

endprologue.

h3. Multithreaded Publishing

By using the feature "Multithreaded Publishing":feature_multithreaded_publishing.html pages will be rendered in parallel.
This will use existing hardware (cpu cores) more efficiently and improve the publish performance.

h3. Memory Settings

"Adapting the memory settings":faq_memory_performance_settings.html can improve the overall publish performance.

h3. Publish Cache

The new feature "Publish Cache":feature_publish_cache.html will improve the publish performance by efficiently gather and cache the raw data of pages for publishing.

h3. Filesystem Attributes

Storing large contents in "Filesystem Attributes":cr_filesystem_attributes.html when publishing into Content Repositories will decrease the database sizes and also has some performance advantages.

h3. Omit Publish Table

Activating the feature "Omit Publish Table":feature_overview.html#omit-writing-to-the-publish-table can reduce the backend database size and improve the publish performance.

h3. Other Settings

The setting

<javascript filename="conf/*.yml">
contentrepository_fetchsize: 1000
</javascript>

will give the JDBC driver a hint to fetch larger resultsets from Content Repository databases during the publish process. Depending on the driver and dbms, this might reduce the
time necessary to publish a group of objects into a Content Repository (only applicable, if "Multithreaded Publishing":feature_multithreaded_publishing.html is used).
