h2. Publish Directory Segments

This feature allows to define, how the publish directories of objects in folders are constructed.

endprologue.

h3. Configuration

If you want to use this feature, you first have to enable it globally in your node.conf

<shell filename="conf/features.yml">
feature:
	pub_dir_segment: true
</shell>

After the feature is activated, the properties dialog for nodes contain a new checkbox _Publish Directory Segments_.
By checking it, the construction of publish directories can be switched from the default behaviour to the segmentation behaviour.

h3. Default behaviour

The default behaviour for publish directories is that each folder in the CMS has an individual path (e.g. +/+ or +/news/+ or +/home/products/cars/+).
This means, that there is no coupling of the folder structure in the CMS to the structure of publish directories.

* The path may be empty (+/+)
* Folders may have the same publish path

Example:

|_. Folder                      |_. publish directory |
| /Home                         | /                   |
| /Home/Products                | /products/          |
| /Home/Fancy Products          | /products/fancy/    |
| /Home/Fancy Products/Boats    | /products/boats/    |
| /Home/Fancy Products/Special  | /specialproducts/   |

Will publish the pages like that:

|_. Page                                |_. filename     |_. published as                 |
| /Home/Products/Startpage              | index.html     | /products/index.html           |
| /Home/Fancy Products/Boats/Speedboat  | speedboat.html | /products/boats/speedboat.html |
| /Home/Fancy Products/Special/Supercar | supercar.html  | /specialproducts/supercar.html |

h3. Segmentation behaviour

The alternative construction of publish directories couples the structure of publish directories to the folder structure in the CMS.
Each folder only defines a single segment of the complete path, which is constructed from the segments of the folder and all its parent folders.

* The segment must not be empty
* Segments must not contain /
* Siblings must not have the same segment

Example:

|_. Folder                      |_. publish directory segment |
| /Home                         | home                        |
| /Home/Products                | products                    |
| /Home/Fancy Products          | fancy                       |
| /Home/Fancy Products/Boats    | boats                       |
| /Home/Fancy Products/Special  | special                     |

Will publish the pages like that:

|_. Page                                |_. filename     |_. published as                    |
| /Home/Products/Startpage              | index.html     | /home/products/index.html         |
| /Home/Fancy Products/Boats/Speedboat  | speedboat.html | /home/fancy/boats/speedboat.html  |
| /Home/Fancy Products/Special/Supercar | supercar.html  | /home/fancy/special/supercar.html |
