h2. PubSub

Gentics CMS JS API event channels, and how to subscribe for their messages.

endprologue.

h3. Deprecated Channels

WARNING: The following channels are still available for backwards compatibility,
but you are discouraged from using them, as they are superseded and will
eventually be phased out.

|_.Deprecated channels    |_.Superseded by                  |
|+content-inserted+       |+tag.inserted+                   |
|+content-rendered+       |+tag.rendered+                   |
|+authentication-required+|+session.authentication-required+|
|+authenticated+          |+session.authenticated+          |
|+settion-set+            |+session.sid-set+                |


h3. General Channels

|_.General channels|_.Description|_.Arguments
	|
|+error-encountered+
	|When an uncaught error occures from within the library.
		|"+GCNError+":gcnjsapi/jsdoc/symbols/GCNError.html
			|


h3. Session Channels

|_.Session channels|_.Description|_.Arguments
	|
|+session.authentication-required+
	|When an operation that requires authentication credentials
	 (eg: "+PageAPI.createTag()+":gcnjsapi/jsdoc/symbols/PageAPI.html#.createTag)
	 cannot proceed because credentials are missing.
	 	|proceed, cancel
			|
|+session.authenticated+
	|When a "+GCN.login()+":gcnjsapi/jsdoc/symbols/GCN.html#.login call to the
	 backend attempt is successfully authenticated.
		|Server response object with the property 'user' that contains user the
		 authenticated user's data.
		 	|
|+session.sid-set+
	|Whenever the session SID is set or updated.
		|Session ID string.
			|


h3. Tag Channels

|_.Tag channels|_.Description|_.Arguments
	|
|+tag.inserted+
	|Triggered at the point immediately after
	 "+TagAPI.render()+":gcnjsapi/jsdoc/symbols/TagAPI.html#.render or
	 "+TagAPI.edit()+":gcnjsapi/jsdoc/symbols/TagAPI.html#.edit is invoked,
		|<ol>
		 <li>jQuery unit set containing the element onto which the tag was
		     rendered.
		 <li>The rendered HTML.
			 |
|+tag.rendered+
	|When a tag has been rendered, either with
	 "+TagAPI.render()+":gcnjsapi/jsdoc/symbols/TagAPI.html#.render
	 or
	 "+TagAPI.edit()+":gcnjsapi/jsdoc/symbols/TagAPI.html#.edit.
	 Note that when modifying the HTML, at least the root tag of the original HTML must be left untouched.
		|<ol>
		 <li>HTML string of rendered tag.
		 <li>The rendered "+Tag+":gcnjsapi/jsdoc/symbols/TagAPI.html.
		 <li>A function that must be invoked, and that must received the
			 (optionally) modified HTML that was passed as the first argument.
			 |
|+tag.rendered-for-editing+
	|When a tag is rendered for editing with
	 "+TagAPI.edit()+":gcnjsapi/jsdoc/symbols/TagAPI.html#.edit.
		|Object containing the properties:
		 <ul>
		 <li> "+tag+":gcnjsapi/jsdoc/symbols/TagAPI.html : The rendered tag.
		 <li> +data+: The raw server response data object.
		 <li> +callback+: The success callback that was passed to the
			  "+TagAPI.edit()+":gcnjsapi/jsdoc/symbols/TagAPI.html#.edit invocation
			  that triggered this event.
		  |
|+tag.before-deleted+
	|When "+TagAPI.remove()+":gcnjsapi/jsdoc/symbols/TagAPI.html#.remove is invoked,
	 before the tag is placed in the list of tags to be deleted.
		|The "+tag+":gcnjsapi/jsdoc/symbols/TagAPI.html to be deleted.
			|


h3. Page Channels

|_.Page channels|_.Description|_.Arguments
	|
|+page.rendered+
	|When "+PageAPI.preview()+":gcnjsapi/jsdoc/symbols/PageAPI.html#.preview is
	 called.
		|<ol>
		 <li>HTML string of rendered page.
		 <li>The rendered "+Page+":gcnjsapi/jsdoc/symbols/PageAPI.html.
		 <li>A function that must be invoked, and that must received the
			 (optionally) modified HTML that was passed as the first argument.
			 |
|+page.before-saved+
	|When "+PageAPI.save()+":gcnjsapi/jsdoc/symbols/PageAPI.html#.save is
	 called, before local changes to the object are committed to the server.
		|The "+page+":gcnjsapi/jsdoc/symbols/PageAPI.html to be saved.
			|
|+page.before-published+
	|When "+PageAPI.publish()+":gcnjsapi/jsdoc/symbols/PageAPI.html#.publish is
	 called, before request is sent to the server.
		|The "+page+":gcnjsapi/jsdoc/symbols/PageAPI.html to be publish.
			|


h3. Folder Channels

|_.Folder channels|_.Description|_.Arguments
	|
|+folder.before-saved+
	|When "+FolderAPI.save()+":gcnjsapi/jsdoc/symbols/FolderAPI.html#.save is
	 called, before local changes to the object are committed to the server.
		|The "+folder+":gcnjsapi/jsdoc/symbols/FolderAPI.html to be saved.
			|

