h2. Message

Sending, listing and reading inbox messages

endprologue.

h3. Sending messages

Sending messages to users and groups

* +MessageAPI.send()+ 

This method allows you to send a message to one or multiple users or groups.
Instead of passing an array with the ID's of the users and groups, you can also just pass a single number.

<javascript>
	GCN.Message.send(
		{
			users : [ 1, 3 ], // User ID's
			groups: [ 4, 6 ]  // Group ID's
		},
		'This is a test message',
		function (response) {
			// This function is called when the message was
			// sent successfully.
		},
		function (error) {
			// This function is called when there was an error.
			// The response object is passed.
		}
	);
</javascript>

h3. Listing messages

Listing messages from the inbox

* +MessageAPI.list()+ 

This retrieves all messages of the currently authenticated user.
The first parameter specifies if to list unread messages only (true),
or all messages (false).

<javascript>
	GCN.Message.list(
		// True for unread messages only
		false,
		function (messages) {
			// 'messages' is an array, which
			// contains all messages.
			for (var i = 0; i < messages.length; i++) {
				var message = messages[i];
				console.log('Listing message with ID ' + message.id + '; Text: ' + message.message);
			}
		},
		function (error) {
			// This function is called when there was an error.
			// The response object is passed.
		}
	);
</javascript>

Each message object contains the following properties:

* id
* message
* type - this is normally just "INFO"
* timestamp
* sender.description
* sender.id
* sender.firstName
* sender.lastName
* sender.login
* sender.email

h3. Reading messages

Marking one or multiple messages as read

* +MessageAPI.read()+ 

With this method you can mark a message as read.
It will then not be highlighted in the Backend for the user
anymore and will not be returned by MessageAPI.list(true) anymore.
Instead of an array, you can also just pass a single number.

<javascript>
	GCN.Message.read(
		// Array with the message ID's
		// You can also just pass a single ID instead
		// of this array.
		[ 123, 456, 789 ],
		function (response) {
			// This function is called when the request
			// was successful.			
		},
		function (error) {
			// This function is called when there was an error.
			// The response object is passed.
		}
	);
</javascript>
