h2. Page Resource


endprologue.


h3. Page Create

The create Request is used to create new pages.

<javascript>
POST /rest/page/create
{
  folderId : ..;  // id of the folder
  templateId: ..; // id of the template
  language: ..;   // language code
  variantId: ..;  // id of the variant
}
</javascript>


h3. Page Load

Load the page with given ID.

<javascript>
GET /rest/page/load/{id}
</javascript>


| Name | Description | Defaultvalue |
| id | Local or global Id of the page to load | - |
| update | TRUE when the page shall be locked on the backend | FALSE |
| template | TRUE when the template information shall be embedded in the page response | FALSE |
| folder | TRUE when the folder information shall be embedded in the page response | FALSE |
| langvars | TRUE when the language variants shall be embedded in the page response | FALSE |
| workflow | TRUE when the workflow information shall be embedded in the page response | FALSE |
| pagevars | TRUE when the page variants shall be embedded in the page response. Page variants will contain folder information. | FALSE |
| translationstatus | TRUE will return information on the page's translation status | FALSE |


h3. Page save

Save the page with given ID.
It is perfectly possible to just send the part of the page, which actually needs to be modified when saving. The only mandatory field in the page object is the page id.

<javascript>
POST /rest/page/save/{id}
{
  page: ..;   // the page
  unlock: ..; // true, when the page shall be unlocked
  delete: ..; // list of tagnames which shall be deleted
}
</javascript>


h3. Page preview

Render a preview of the given page.

<javascript>
POST /rest/page/preview
{
  page: ..;
}
</javascript>


h3. Page delete

Deletes the given page.

<javascript>
POST /rest/page/delete/{id}
</javascript>


h3. Page cancel

Cancel editing the current page (unlocks the page).

POST /rest/page/cancel/{id}
newtag

Create a new tag in the page. The posted magicValue will be inserted into the created tag at appropriate position.

POST /rest/page/newtag/{id}?constructId=..
{
  magicValue: ..;
}

h3. Page restoreVersion

Restore a certain version of the page.

<javascript>
POST /rest/page/restore/{id}?version=..
</javascript>

h3. translate

Translate the given page into another language.

<javascript>
POST /rest/page/translate/{id}?language=..
</javascript>

h3. Page publish

Publish the given page. If the user has no permission to publish the page, a workflow for the publish process will be started. The posted message will be sent to users in groups responsible for further proceeding in the workflow.

<javascript>
POST /rest/page/publish/{id}
{
  "message" : ..;
}
</javascript>


h3. workflow/decline

Decline the workflow step (assign the page to another group).

<javascript>
POST /rest/page/workflow/decline/{id}
{
  "message" : ..;
  "group" : ..;
  "delete" : ..;
}
</javascript>

| Name | Description | default Value |
| id   | Page id | - |
| message | Message which explains, why the workflow is declined | - |
| group | ID of the group to which the workflow shall be assigned (mandatory if delete is FALSE) | - |
| delete | TRUE if the workflow shall be completely deleted | FALSE |

Parameters for /rest/page/workflow/decline

h3. Page workflow/revoke

Revoke a workflow (if it was not yet edited).

<javascript>
POST /rest/page/workflow/revoke/{id}
</javascript>
